                                                  Machine learning

                    is an application of artificial intelligence (AI) that provides systems the ability to automatically learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed.
Machine learning focuses on the development of computer programs that can access data and use it learn for themselves.

The process of learning begins with observations or data, such as examples, direct experience, or instruction, in order to look for patterns in data and make better decisions in the future based on the examples that we provide. The primary aim is to allow the computers learn automatically without human intervention or assistance and adjust actions accordingly.

          Some machine learning methods
*Machine learning algorithms are often categorized as supervised or unsupervised.

1.Supervised machine learning algorithms can apply what has been learned in the past to new data using labeled examples to predict future events. Starting from the analysis of a known training dataset, the learning algorithm produces an inferred function to make predictions about the output values. The system is able to provide targets for any new input after sufficient training. The learning algorithm can also compare its output with the correct, intended output and find errors in order to modify the model accordingly.
2.In contrast, unsupervised machine learning algorithms are used when the information used to train is neither classified nor labeled. Unsupervised learning studies how systems can infer a function to describe a hidden structure from unlabeled data. The system doesn’t figure out the right output, but it explores the data and can draw inferences from datasets to describe hidden structures from unlabeled data.
3.Semi-supervised machine learning algorithms fall somewhere in between supervised and unsupervised learning, since they use both labeled and unlabeled data for training – typically a small amount of labeled data and a large amount of unlabeled data. The systems that use this method are able to considerably improve learning accuracy. Usually, semi-supervised learning is chosen when the acquired labeled data requires skilled and relevant resources in order to train it / learn from it. Otherwise, acquiringunlabeled data generally doesn’t require additional resources.
4.Reinforcement machine learning algorithms is a learning method that interacts with its environment by producing actions and discovers errors or rewards. Trial and error search and delayed reward are the most relevant characteristics of reinforcement learning. This method allows machines and software agents to automatically determine the ideal behavior within a specific context in order to maximize its performance. Simple reward feedback is required for the agent to learn which action is best; this is known as the reinforcement signal.



*Terminology

1.Dataset: A set of data examples, that contain features important to solving the problem.
2.Features: Important pieces of data that help us understand a problem. These are fed in to a Machine Learning algorithm to help it learn
3.Model: The representation (internal model) of a phenomenon that a Machine Learning algorithm has learnt. It learns this from the data it is shown during training. The model is the output you get after training an algorithm. For example, a decision tree algorithm would be trained and produce a decision tree model.

*Process

1.Data Collection: Collect the data that the algorithm will learn from.
2.Data Preparation: Format and engineer the data into the optimal format, extracting important features and performing dimensionality reduction.
3.Training: Also known as the fitting stage, this is where the Machine Learning algorithm actually learns by showing it the data that has been collected and prepared.
4.Evaluation: Test the model to see how well it performs.
5.Tuning: Fine tune the model to maximise it’s performance.




